Winter is coming - this project is a simulation of a flu (influenza) epidemic.
Obviously this will be a simplification of real-world epidemics.
The simulation consists of both a disease model describing characteristics of the illness,
and a social model describing how people interact with each other.

We start with the basic element of the simulation – a person.
We'll abstract away most of the details we associate with people since only a few qualities interest us.
At any given time, a person can be in one of several states:

    Healthy: healthy people can become sick only after they come in contact with people who are contagious.
    But not always - this depends on the infection rate of the disease, only some percentage of exposed people may become ill.

    Sick: after contact with a contagious person, a healthy person may become sick because they catch a virus from
    the contagious person.

    Contagious: a few days (this is the incubation time and depends on the specific virus of infection) after infection,
     a sick person becomes contagious and may transmit the disease to other people with whom they come into contact.

    Recovering: some time after becoming contagious a person either gets over the illness and starts recovering,
     or...dies of the illness. A recovering person is no longer contagious and becomes healthy again after a few more days.

    Dead: depending on the mortality rate of the disease, a person may recover or die. A dead person stays dead.
    Sorry, no zombies here :^( .

The times in the simulation disease model (from sick to contagious, from contagious to recovery or dead,
 from recovering to healthy) are fixed for each type of virus, but should be different for each type of virus.

The simulation also consists of three other elements: chickens, ducks and pigs.
These have much the same behaviour as people, they can be in the same states and they can be infectious
(chickens and ducks can infect each other with the H5N1 virus, pigs infect pigs with the H1N1 virus )
with different incubation times and mortality rates. However, infected animals never recover from the infection,
 ie, there is no recovering state for animals; they may stay contagious or they may die from it.
 Rarely, an animal can infect a person with its virus, which people can then pass on to other people as described above.

The social model describes the behaviour of the simulation elements. They all live together on a two-dimensional grid
and are in contact with other elements situated within a neighbourhood on the grid. The notion of neighbourhood is a
parameter of the simulation, eg, this can be the 4-neighbourhood of row and column neighbours, or the 8-neighbourhood
which includes diagonal neighbours, or some other neighbourhood. An element does not necessarily contact all of its
neighbours; perhaps a fixed number or some percentage. Contagious elements can infect healthy elements they come into
contact with, within the rules given above.

The simulation itself proceeds by steps of a day at a time. The grid is initialized with all people being healthy,
but with some animals already being sick with their specific virus. At the first step, each element determines which
 state they should next assume, and so on. The simulation ends when there is no more change, all entities are either
 healthy or dead.

People can move on the grid into adjacent empty squares (only one element can occupy a square).
This can bring them into contact with new elements. Sick, contagious and recovering people move more slowly
than healthy people. Animals don't move.

Variants

There are lots of possibilities, including:

    Individual characteristics which can affect the infection rate, eg, different inherent resistance to the disease,
     or different habits such as frequent hand-washing.
    Individual characteristics which can affect the mortality rate, eg, a general fitness level.
    Someone who has been exposed and has recovered develops antibodies which confer resistance to further infection.
    Different population patterns, ie, not every grid point has to be populated.
    Some individuals may be vaccinated against the viruses.
    People may move non-randomly on the grid, eg, moving away from infection.
    Changing weather can change infection rates.
    Invent your own...

Constraints

    Code must be professional - clean and commented.
    You must implement at least two variants.
    Project delivery is on the course Moodle site.
    Code delivery is in the form of a .jar archive file only. The archive does not include .class files.
    Deliverables also include a Readme.txt file with instructions on how to run the application from the command line.

Unconstraints

    Use the development tool of your choice.
    Use the operating system of your choice.
    Use the hardware of your choice.

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Flu epidemic redux

    Times are tough - your company, due to budget reductions, no longer has the resources to fund parallel projects so
    you're being "asked" (a polite way of saying either that or you're fired) to consolidate your work with that of others.
    Furthermore, the marketing department has decided that your current application is missing an essential component
     to become a viable product - it has no visual display.
    To do

    You are now going to be working in three-person development groups (there may exceptionally be a two-person group,
     nobody works alone), as in the table below. No, you have no choice in the other group member,
      they've been scientifically determined by Human Resources for maximum compatibility.

    Each group will

        consolidate your individual projects into one "better" project;
        identify who is responsible for what code in the resultant application
        (as @author tags in javadoc comments). Although some code can be jointly owned, each group member must be
        individually responsible for a reasonable amount of code (eg, a distribution of 80% by one member, 20% by
        another and 0% by the third is unacceptable).

    Additional project specs

        Add a visual display to your current application.
            However, there is very little budget for this project and management has decided that you
             must re-use a display from another (very lucrative) project - the display from the Foxes and Rabbits
             project. You have no choice in this, otherwise you're fired.
        The visual display consists of two dynamic parts:
            A view of the application's world with cells representing different population categories
            (types of individuals at different stages of health).
            Graph plots showing the numbers of individuals in different population categories.
        A module for selecting / changing application parameters. A GUI is probably the way to go.
            Choose between 4- and 8-connected neighbourhoods.
            Slow down or speed up the simulation.
        Apply the usual coding conventions. Otherwise you're fired.
        You are only allowed to use the keyword static in three places:
        in constants, in import static declarations and in the entry-point main method. Otherwise you're fired.

    Deliverables

        All source code and necessary resources into a .jar file archive file.
        A READMOI.txt file explaining how to run the application and listing any necessary resources,
         eg, JUnit, and where to obtain them.
        No .class bytecode files.
        If you use a commonly-available library, eg, JUnit if you do unit testing, always a good idea,
         this should not be part of your deliverables. But it should be mentioned in the READMOI.txt file.
        A .pdf file briefly describing what you did.

    Client constraints

    In the words of Jean-Paul Sartre, "L'enfer, c'est le client." Here's couple of constraints imposed
    by the client, which your project must respect:

        use some explicit inheritance (not just implicit inheritance from Object);
        use attribute polymorphism;
        use method polymorphism with dynamic dispatch;
        use enum.

